So, this is going to be a bit of a discussion, starting
with us three, and I'll introduce myself and then allow the
others to introduce themselves as well, but feel free to put your
hand up at any point and participate.
I hope there's this, the general topic is, which flows on
really well from Natalie's talk, so thank you, that really set
us up well.
I was kind of looking back at Nate and our previous discussions,
and a lot of what we've talked about really resonated there.
But overall, we bring it to AppProtocol specifically and
building a new sort of creator economy here.
So, from my perspective, I'm one of the co-founders
of Spark.
Spark is focused on content creators, the creator economy specifically, more like
short-form creators and that kind of really, really big influencer marketing
ecosystem that's grown on these incumbent social platforms, and we work
out of a space in New York called Versi, which is
home to a lot of content creators.
I think they have a combined over 10 million followers, and these
are predominantly spread across TikTok and Instagram.
And a lot of them, a lot of the discussions and workshops
that they run there is basically all about how they can extract
their audiences from these closed platforms because, you know, they're at
the whim of an algorithm change or a policy change, and their
career could potentially end tomorrow in their livelihood.
And AppProtocol, we see is a great solution for
that, you know, their current solutions are pulling that out to things
like Substack, to newsletters, Patreon, PayWorld Gardens.
But AppProtocol is a way for them to native
ly own that audience where they actually get discovered.
And so that's a bit about Spark and my motivation for
building in the atmosphere.
Yeah, I don't know if I, I'm Joe Basser,
by the way.
Thank you, Joe.
My name is Josh Shiket.
I'm also New York-based.
I'm one of the bad guys in the room like Natalie.
I'm a venture investor.
I work at a firm called Sentinel Global.
We're a multi-stage investment firm.
I've spent my whole career translating open protocols to real-world
problems and commercial opportunities.
So this started in the fintech and digital assets space
where I've done a lot of work investing in companies from,
you know, the seed stage to even underwriting public ones.
I've done a lot of work in the open social web,
serving communities from Noster to Farcaster, Activity Pub, came
across AppProton Blue Sky a couple years ago and
is really drawn to the affordance of data and identity port
ability that the ecosystem offered.
And super excited to be here today and talk about some of
the new novel business models that this protocol and technology foundation enables.
So I'll pass it over to Nate.
Hello, I'm Nate.
I work on open sourced for most of my life.
And recently I've become really enamored with AppProt
on.
So I'm working on, like, some SDKs for AppP
roton.
And then recently a music app, which has sort of brought me
into this problem of, like, what ways can artists, like, express how
their content should be used.
As Joe mentioned, like, how do you retain ownership of the content
that you create without being subject to random things?
So, yeah, I just think it's really exciting to sort of
break open the problem that you get when you reverse the Fa
ustian bargain that sort of she was referring to in the
previous talk.
So I'm excited to get into it.
Awesome.
Yeah.
I guess everyone, the reason why everyone's here, everyone understands the
issues with current social and the kind of power dynamics that are
there, especially with content creators.
Even looking at, you know, the creators, we're looking at cater
ing to the most of their revenue sources that are not actually
through the platforms they operate on.
You know, the TikTok, Instagram, revenue sharing programs is actually a very,
very small fraction of their revenue source.
And it tends to be these kind of third-party brand sponsors
hips and things like that that make up, you know, the large
portion.
Yeah, Josh, you posted a really good leaflet recently about kind
of redistribution, the redistribution of attention and especially with algorithms
and feeds.
So, yeah, I'd love to, if you could share your thoughts
more on like how that can impact the creator economy specifically in
the context of AppRoto.
Sure.
We'll do a quick survey.
How many people post on social media?
Put your hand up.
All right.
Everyone, hands down.
Who makes meaningful income from their posts?
Hands up.
I see one hand in the room.
Congrats.
The reality is users and publishers are the stakeholders in these social
networks that create value.
But they're not the ones that capture the value.
And this is because the platform at the end of the day
is the entity that owns distribution.
They own what...
They're the ones who control what content users see and in
what order.
And they also control the interface.
So, the screen real estate that users see.
And these are really the two things that enable the platform to
capture a meaningful majority of value on these platforms.
And as the entity that captures the meaningful amount of value on
these networks, the platform is also the arbiter of value.
It is the entity that decides how that value gets allocated across
the various stakeholders in its social network ecosystem.
And ultimately, these platforms serve not users.
They don't serve publishers.
They serve shareholders at the end of the day.
And so, there's really little to structurally no incentive for
these platforms to share back revenue to creators.
There are some of these creator monetization programs that exist where
maybe a small fraction of advertising revenue is passed back to users
and publishers.
But they're prohibitively high thresholds to participating in
these programs.
And so, one of the core affordances that I mentioned of
AppProto in my intro was this decoupling of
data from application presentation.
So, everyone's data lives in their own personal PDFs and
applications tap into each user's respective PDFs and create an
application view by tapping into this data.
And so, one of the things that happens as a byproduct
of this affordance is users in AppProto are able
to create their own custom feeds and algorithms that live outside of
the platform's control.
And the algorithm at the end of the day is the thing
that decides distribution, that decides who sees what content and in what
order.
And so, I'm hopeful that in this evolution of social platforms
adopting AppProto and decoupling data from platforms themselves,
we'll actually be able to live in a world of user-
controlled algorithms versus platform-controlled algorithms.
And that gives a lot more agency to the user and the
creator as, well, number one, they get to take back control of
distribution, which enables them to control what their audience sees.
Today, if you're a user or publisher and you're broadcasting
out into the social abyss, you have no control over what
content your audience sees and in what order.
And so, this is a really bad sort of trade-off for
users and publishers.
But if publishers are able to take back control of distribution through
public feeds or through custom feeds and custom algorithms, not only do
they take back distribution, but they also take back control of value.
And now they become the arbiters of value in this ecosystem,
not the platforms.
And I'm hoping that with publishers and content creators becoming the
arbiters of value in these ecosystems, now they're the ones
that decide how that value gets allocated across the ecosystem.
And I'm excited to see how this envelope of value could
get distributed across various stakeholders.
At the very extreme, you could imagine like Andra, for example,
who runs the largest custom feeder algorithm on Blue Sky, a verified
news feed that she built with Graze.
She could embed advertising and sponsor posts within her feed, which she
's already done, not at massive scale, and then redistribute
all of that ad revenue that she generates to users or subscribers
of her feed.
And you could start to imagine how this envelope of value could
get distributed across these various stakeholders that actually provide value to the
feed or algorithm that creates these new incentives and new forms of
economic coordination.
So when you're talking about
the redistribution of value
to the creators, as a platform creator,
as a venture capitalist, presumably this is actively against your core interests,
right?
Because in order for you to gain value from the thing you
're creating, you need to control what people see because that gives
your platform value that then you can extract for yourself, right?
So how are you reconciling that?
Like, are you planning on somehow building record deals with creators where
they pay you for access to a platform?
And if they are the ones who are the ones creating value,
how does the platform or the venture capitalist add anything to that
that makes it worth getting the share of the value in return?
Great.
Thank you for the question.
It's obviously tough to be the bad guy.
No, no, no.
Look, I think the competitive vectors are going to change in this
space and the points of demand aggregation will change as well.
Obviously, in this world, the creator has a lot more leverage as
someone who controls their own distribution, owns their portable feed that they
can take with them from one platform to another.
I envision, again, it's still really early.
It's still too early to say, but I envision, you know,
companies like Graze, for example, will build, will almost become like
the stripe for creators and build monetization tools for them that
allow them to, you know, for example, Graze has already built
an ad marketplace that allows for feed creators on Graze to
embed advertising and sponsored ads within their feeds.
And, you know, Graze will probably impose some sort of take
rate on that transaction.
And so, yeah, as more people use Graze, as more feed
creators come on to Graze, as more attention concentrates in
Graze feeds, you know, I expect Graze to, you know,
potentially in the future, you know, participate in some of those economics
where they're introducing advertisers to attention that takes place within these
algorithms or feeds that creators produce.
And I think the platforms will also play a role in this.
Ultimately, if you create a feed or an algorithm, you still need
distribution for your feeder algorithm.
If you just create it and put it out into the world,
there's not much value in that.
You need people to view it.
And, you know, Blue Sky has 40 million users.
They provide distribution for feeds.
They'll probably want a piece of the cut as well.
Whenever they render an ad within one of these feeds, whenever a
user looks at one of these feeds in the Blue Sky client
and sees an ad, you know, that envelope of value will get
split between the creator and the platform and probably Graze as
well, who's like this monetization tool or infrastructure for creators.
But, yeah, that's my response.
Yeah, I mean, I'll just make a quick point and then
we'll go to the question over there.
From the perspective of someone that's, you know, building an app
there, I think I echo Josh a lot there in that there
's still the distribution surface.
And I think it does flip the power dynamics, but there's
still the requirement for the interface to get the creator's content
to the audience.
And there's costs involved with that.
But I think that the competitive nature changes and the power dynamic
changes.
So, you know, the creator in this case has a lot more
power and say and arguably more, much more bargaining power in that
transaction.
So, you know, the apps that exist, depending on what roles they
play, you know, looking at protocols specifically, there's lots of different
components.
There's, they might host your PDS, which actually has your
content stored on it.
It might, they might have the app view and they might be
running the feed.
They might be doing the moderation.
They might have a full stack, in which case they deserve a
larger bit of that pie.
But ultimately, the creator has a lot more bargaining power and these
kind of other components of the system fall further back into the,
you know, into the background.
And, you know, they basically play a role as a broadcaster
or the rails for which a creator can access the audience.
And the creator has the choice over which apps that they use
as the surface to reach their audience.
So, yeah, there was, I think there was a question over there.
Hi.
So, I actually use Graze to create feeds and I have
one feed enabled for monetization.
But what I've found in general with the feed creators with
Graze is that most of us are trying to create these
feeds, but we're not necessarily out there trying to market to
get advertisers.
Like, that's not our main skill set, if you will.
Whereas the creators themselves who are trying to monetize their work
are skilled at that.
And so, I guess I wonder both what do you see as
a way that we can actually get advertisers even wanting to be
part of this system.
Yeah.
Like, how do you make that happen when you kind of have
this weird distribution of creator versus more of a developer general interest
person?
Yeah.
I mean, wherever there's eyeballs, there's going to be value.
And right now, like, yeah, there's over 40 million accounts on
Blue Sky, but then there's even less if you look at
the actual monthly active users.
And there are already interests in advertisers, whether that's through Gra
ze or people, you know, sponsored feeds or brands participating in the
network.
There's clear value there.
There's eyeballs.
There's attention.
And where there's attention, there's money to be made, especially
if we're looking at, you know, advertising models.
But there's a lot of other models as well, I think,
which come about when permission spaces become a thing on App Protocol.
But, yeah, to answer your question, I think more that becomes a
real thing.
Sorry.
Sorry about that.
Yeah, I think I would like to ask Nate to pass it
to you.
I mean, we've talked a bit about more from this perspective
of creators and ads and that being their kind of source of
revenue.
But for musicians and artists, it's a pretty different revenue source.
And algorithms, especially today with, you know, apps like Spotify and Apple
Music that have a real impact on how the music's created
in the first place.
How do you see kind of App Proto changing that landscape?
Cool.
So I'm really excited about, well, first of all, how many
of you have heard of App Proto fans?
Okay.
A good chunk of you.
For those of you who haven't, it's sort of like
you show up, you hook up your bank, and then other people
can show up and pay you five bucks, like coffee or something
like this.
And so what's exciting to me is that in my music
app today, you can say when you upload a track or something,
you can say only allow supporters to consume this track.
And so I can just, as an app view or an application,
just respect that stated support, which when permission data is a thing,
that can be private as well.
And so it's sort of more, it's just like Patreon
style, like creators have relationships that they build grassroots with people that
's sort of divorced from the classical conception of distribution or the
advertising models, which is exciting to me personally.
So I think the tricky part in my mind comes around when
you ask a question like, if Spark is going to present a
cameo of a song that appears on a music platform where
the content is gated, how do you trickle the value
back to the artist who owns it?
How do you quantify the value that the artist is providing by
allowing their content to show up downstream?
And so I think that is where I want to press and
try to figure out how do I do a handshake with
Joe and say, how much is it worth to the artist for
their content to appear there?
And I think that's a very tricky problem.
And I don't have any answers to that right now.
But like, that is where I'm really interested in thinking.
Because it does seem like the value of an impression depends entirely
on like what the content is, first of all.
And then second of all, the place where you see it.
Like, because you can like, just hold up.
Like, you can have your phone in front of you, but you
can just not look at it.
And it's like, the system might count that as an impression.
So it's like, there's a lot of different human ways
that I think we need to think about what the value of
content distributing downstream is that I think is an important problem.
But one thing I'm really excited about is that if an
artist doesn't like the way that Joe and I do the
handshake as far as like respecting the value of their content
downstream, they can just take their content and go to a different
app because of AppProto, which I think is really cool.
And so maybe a different app does a better handshake in
terms of respecting the value of their work downstream.
But yeah.
Yeah, I think that's a great point.
I mean, I, you know, Spark and Player, we're going to
interoperate one day, I promise you.
We'll have, you know, you can add songs to Spark posts
that are, you know, play a record.
So an artist's song that they have on their PDS
can start to propagate, interoperate across lots of different apps,
not just Spark, but wherever there's music.
And where these kind of value exchanges happen, I think there's,
it's really important that there's some mechanism to share value
there.
I think right now we're starting to see like intra-app
monetization models where, you know, Leaflet is launching Leaflet
Pro and they have their monetization stream.
You can subscribe to Leaflet.
You know, you can have, there's other apps that are starting
to do pro things as well or Graze has their own
advertising.
But, you know, even if you're looking at a Graze
feed, which taps into your question, a feed builder on Graze
could have ads in their feed and Blue Sky that are actually
taking on the majority of the costs and distributing that content is
getting none of that.
And sure, that works for now while they've got $100
million in the bank, but it's not going to be a
sustainable ecosystem.
So, I am a bit of a proponent for, and this
came up in the previous talk, micropayments there for
the inter-app ecosystem.
So, you know, for example, a player song being used on a
sponsored post on Spark and a percentage of the revenue being made
on that sponsored post automatically being distributed to the artist whose song
is being used there.
And that also could flow in the other direction where you have
niche artists, which this exists on platforms today.
There's these kind of shadow economies where up-and-coming musician
will pay for a popular content creator to use their song on
their post as a great way to get discovered.
And we see TikTok has been such a great discovery mechanism for
artists recently.
And this doesn't just have to stay within the, you know,
creators like artists and UGC creators.
It can propagate across every other component of the ecosystem.
PDS hosts, moderation services, app views, labelers, whatever.
They can all become sustainable models that don't just rely on
donations, but share in the value that's being created across the
ecosystem.
So, if anyone wants to chat micropayments on App
Roto, then please talk to me.
So, yeah, I think we had a question.
Actually, this is...
I'm glad you're asking a question because I was about
to reference your most recent post and proposal about more artist-specific
metadata on AppRoto.
So, yeah, we'd love to hear it.
Thank you that you're introduced because...
And if you want to talk about what you...
Yeah.
Talk about that, please.
My name is Hilke.
I'm a musician myself and I run a music label.
So, I know a bit how the music industry works.
And, well, if you talk about monetization downstream for music that
is posed on a...
that is in a video, we have a system for that.
It's called copyright.
Yeah.
And I think this has to play a role even if it
looks much too complicated for technologists like many of us.
But this is actually the system in place that the music industry
and the big players use.
And I think we need to find out with this protocol how
we can map their data to the AppRoto data.
And, yeah, I think that opportunity was missed in the first wave
of Spotify and stuff.
And then the whole mess that was made, then they had to
buy out a bit of majors and that's how all the
indie musicians and players got fucked.
So, I think now we have the opportunity to do this mapping
properly.
And then the music industry, the labels, will get along, hopefully, with
this ecosystem that we try to build.
So, that is where...
That's the reason why I made a proposal for Lexicon
who does actually that, to translate the copyright system to AppR
oto.
Yeah.
I think looking at, like, TikTok as an example, you know, they
have a pretty complete library of licensed music there.
And they have deals with these record labels and they tend to
pay, on average, 30 cents per song used on a post.
And this is a very static dynamic and they are able to
achieve that because they have, you know, economics of scale.
They have a lot of bargaining power there and distribution.
And I think looking at AtProtocol and music on
AtProtocol, at least for now, there's kind of
two angles, which is, one, there's that library completeness on
one end, which requires a lot of capital, a lot of bargaining
power that we don't have.
And on the other end, it's starting from the indie artists,
the creators at the other end that are starting from nothing and
owning their content from the ground up.
We can then, over time, build that and build that bargaining power
and then get those kind of partnerships with real copyright and real
respect for the laws that are necessary to protect artists.
We don't have much time left, but I think there's
a necessary topic to cover with the creator economy and that is
AI, which is, you know, I think there's a lot of
talk about gen AI affecting content creation and verification of what's
real and what's not and that affecting the economies.
Josh, as an investor, like, I would love to hear your thoughts
on AI in the creator economy at large.
Yeah, I think Natalie touched on this during the last talk pretty
well.
She spoke about how the covenant of the web is dead.
Google scrapes websites in return.
Websites get traffic.
But we're evolving from a system of search engines to answer
engines where, you know, it's nine, ten times harder to get
traffic on Google now than it was 10 years ago.
There's some stat.
It's like 750 to 1,000 times harder to get traffic
if you're a website from OpenAI and Anthropic and
some of these model providers.
So users aren't going to websites.
They're just getting all the answers fed to them natively
within an AI chat interface.
And AI agents don't look at ads, right?
And so, you know, for publishers, I'm thinking more news organizations.
You know, the current business model of the web doesn't work
with the way in which AI works.
Because, you know, typically these news media organizations are monetizing traffic
to their website and monetizing that attention and selling ads against
it.
And so, you know, obviously Cloudflare, you know, Microsoft are
doing some interesting work around content data marketplaces.
Publishers create unique niche content.
AI model providers need data to train their models.
There was an interesting stat.
So I think it was, I forget which AI model provider it
was, so I won't say the name.
But, you know, for the same amount of data, I believe Reddit
got paid, it was something like, you know, five to seven X
times more for their data.
And the reason for that, relative to New York Times, sorry.
And the reason for that is because the New York Times' content
is a lot more substitutable to a lot of other news
publications out there, whereas the information that lives on Reddit is more
unique and niche.
And as a result, a lot more valuable to the AI model
providers.
And so, you know, while we haven't, you know, figured out
an AI interface for social yet, I think we still, you know,
swipe through the short form video reels.
And, you know, we haven't really, AI hasn't really solved
the interface for social in an AI native way.
Like Sora just died last week, right?
It will be interesting to see how this business model evolves for
publishers.
And I think micropayments will be a really big
piece of it.
Anything to add there?
Yeah, pretty much done for time.
If there's any last questions, otherwise we'll wrap it up.
Thank you.
I think, yeah, we're all excited for that kind of, there
's a big kind of sea change coming for creators in terms
of how much power and the power dynamics there with creators.
And we're building that on that protocol, so it's exciting.
Thank you.